General implicit prior sections (#148)
CUQI-DTU/CUQI-Book: chapter01_m/chapter01_m.md

---
authors:
  - name: Jasper Everink
---

(implicit-prior-chapter)=
# Chapter 11: BIPs with implicit prior

In this chapter, we discuss how to solve Bayesian inverse problems using implicit priors in CUQIpy. Recall from {ref}`implicit-priors` that we call priors implicit if the prior probability density $p(\mathbf{x})$ is either intractable or nonexistent.

> In this chapter, we focus on two implicit priors. First, we show how to construct implicit priors that combine variational regularization with Gaussian priors. Second, we show how to define priors using denoising algorithms. A third example about enforcing constraints through generative models can be found in {ref}`PDE-based-heat-problem`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, we focus on two implicit priors. First, we show how to construct implicit priors that combine variational regularization with Gaussian priors. Second, we show how to define priors using denoising algorithms. Enforcing prior information through generative models is not discussed in this chapter, and examples of such priors can be found in {ref}`PDE-based-heat-problem`. 
```

> In both examples, we consider the relatively simple inverse problems of inferring a square signal, shown below, from measuring the convolution of the signal. This signal is chosen for simplicity, but also because it illustrates the ability of implicit priors to capture features in the inferred signal, such as sharp edges and positivity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both examples, we consider the relatively simple inverse problems of inferring a square signal, shown below, from observations of the signal through a forward model. This signal is chosen for simplicity, but also because it illustrates the ability of implicit priors to capture features in the inferred signal, such as sharp edges and positivity.
```
